study.md, before:

# Rails as an API Study

Use your favorite search engine and the provided readings to research and
respond to the following questions.

In your responses, be sure to cite any relevant sources you consulted in your
search. We ask you to write responses in your own words in order to see how you
process what you've read. Please do not respond with direct quotes from source
material. Instead, digest what you've read and repeat it in your own voice.

Please note:

-   Many of the readings will mention the "view" layer. We won't be covering the
    view layer in this program.
-   We'll use our [Rails API Template](https://github.com/ga-wdi-boston/rails-api-template)
    repository as the basis for our rails applications.
    This template excludes the "view" layer.

## Required Readings

-   Better Explained
    -   [Starting Ruby on Rails: What I Wish I Knew](http://betterexplained.com/articles/starting-ruby-on-rails-what-i-wish-i-knew/)
        (sections 3 and 4)
    -   [Intermediate Rails: Understanding Models, Views and Controllers](http://betterexplained.com/articles/intermediate-rails-understanding-models-views-and-controllers/)
        (up to and including "Quick Controllers")
-   Ruby on Rails Guides
    -   [Rails Routing from the Outside](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/routing.html)
        (up to and including chapter 2.6)
    -   [Action Controller Overview](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_controller_overview.html)
        (up to and including chapter 4.5)
    -   [The Rails Command Line](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/command_line.html)
        (up to and including chapter 1.4)

## Additional Resources

-   [Getting Started with Rails — Ruby on Rails Guides](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html)

## Define Model Responsibilities

In your own words, define what the responsibilities of the model layer are in
Rails.

```md
<!-- your answer here -->
```

## Define Controller Responsibilities

In your own words, define what the responsibilities of the controller layer are
in Rails.

```md
<!-- your answer here -->
```

## Define Router Responsibilities

In your own words, define what the router does in Rails.

```md
<!-- your answer here -->
```

## The Request-Response Cycle in Rails

Starting with a client making a GET request to a particular URL, describe how
the parts of Rails interact to produce and send a response.

```md
<!-- your answer here -->
```

Commit message:

Response for the rails api study

study.md, after:

# Rails as an API Study

Use your favorite search engine and the provided readings to research and
respond to the following questions.

In your responses, be sure to cite any relevant sources you consulted in your
search. We ask you to write responses in your own words in order to see how you
process what you've read. Please do not respond with direct quotes from source
material. Instead, digest what you've read and repeat it in your own voice.

Please note:

-   Many of the readings will mention the "view" layer. We won't be covering the
    view layer in this program.
-   We'll use our [Rails API Template](https://github.com/ga-wdi-boston/rails-api-template)
    repository as the basis for our rails applications.
    This template excludes the "view" layer.

## Required Readings

-   Better Explained
    -   [Starting Ruby on Rails: What I Wish I Knew](http://betterexplained.com/articles/starting-ruby-on-rails-what-i-wish-i-knew/)
        (sections 3 and 4)
    -   [Intermediate Rails: Understanding Models, Views and Controllers](http://betterexplained.com/articles/intermediate-rails-understanding-models-views-and-controllers/)
        (up to and including "Quick Controllers")
-   Ruby on Rails Guides
    -   [Rails Routing from the Outside](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/routing.html)
        (up to and including chapter 2.6)
    -   [Action Controller Overview](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_controller_overview.html)
        (up to and including chapter 4.5)
    -   [The Rails Command Line](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/command_line.html)
        (up to and including chapter 1.4)

## Additional Resources

-   [Getting Started with Rails — Ruby on Rails Guides](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html)

## Define Model Responsibilities

In your own words, define what the responsibilities of the model layer are in
Rails.

```md
The model is responsible for getting, storing, validating data. It is the layer
that actually talks to the database and does all of those heavy lifting tasks
```

## Define Controller Responsibilities

In your own words, define what the responsibilities of the controller layer are
in Rails.

```md
The controller layer is responsible for passing the data that the model needs
to do its work. In a sense it passes the model layer instructions on what to
actually do in the form of parameters.
```

## Define Router Responsibilities

In your own words, define what the router does in Rails.

```md
The router is responsible for routing the requests to the appropriate controllers
via the URL path.
```

## The Request-Response Cycle in Rails

Starting with a client making a GET request to a particular URL, describe how
the parts of Rails interact to produce and send a response.

```md
The client makes a request that the web server handels then the routes it to the
controller which then requests the model layer to so some work on the DB which then
sends the information or response back up the chain back to the client.
```
